Thanks to everyone responsible for this release!

Hugin-2010.2.0 release notes

Translated versions of these notes can be found here:
http://hugin.sourceforge.net/releases/

Hugin is a panorama stitcher and more.

Changes since 2010.0.0

This is our second release in 2010. It delivers some major new
features, completes integration of projects from the 2009 Google
Summer of Code, and includes many general improvements.

Layout mode

The Hugin Fast Preview window visualises your panorama and lets you
change the project by dragging and clicking. This release introduces
an extra mode for this preview that shows the entire project as a
diagram with colour-coded lines connecting each of the photographs.

Now with a glance you can see where the project is ok and where
there are problems if it isn't quite right. Just click on any
connection and Hugin jumps to the Control Points tab to edit that
pair of photos.

Masking

Hugin uses multiresolution seam blending to join photos invisibly by
smoothing colours and brightness. Controlling the location of this
seam is now much easier with the new Mask tab, which instead of
requiring you to place the seam itself, lets you just indicate the
areas of photos that you do and don't want to be part of the
finished panorama - The seam itself then gets placed intelligently
using the remaining overlapping areas.

Masks can be saved and reused in new projects, so objects that
appear again and again like tripod heads can be easily excluded.

Mosaics

For a stitched panorama you shoot photos in different directions but
from a single location, Hugin will happily assemble these into a
complete scene.  Now Hugin has an alternative mosaic mode — You can
take photos of a planar object such as a floor, painting, or mural
from any position, direction or angle, and Hugin will stitch them
seamlessly just as it does with a normal panorama.

Linked bracketing

Hugin allows you to shoot exposure bracketed photos and panoramas,
it will automatically combine them with exposure fusion or HDR
merging into a single image that has the best areas of each photo in
the stack. Hugin uses the same alignment process as with panoramas
so even hand-held bracketing works perfectly.

Photographers who use quality tripods can now skip this alignment
stage by telling Hugin that photos in a bracketed stack are linked
and share the same view.

Control point detector modes

Hugin uses plugin tools called control point detectors to
automatically match features between photos. Previous versions of
Hugin relied on the detector entirely, but now Hugin can make
intelligent detector choices based on knowledge of the panorama.

So Hugin can now match the photos in a multi-row panorama more
efficiently and with less error by breaking the job into separate
tasks, panoramas consisting of bracketed stacks can be automatically
identified and Hugin will switch to using appropriate matching
tools.

Another new feature is that panoramas can be approximately aligned
by dragging the photos around in the preview or using a template,
the control point detector can then be asked to only check
overlapping pairs of photos instead of all possible combinations of
photos — This speeds things up and reduces the chances of false
matches.

New lens types

Hugin supports photos taken with a wide range of 'normal' and
fisheye lenses, and can fine-tune for variation of distortion from
these standard types. With this release support has been added for
orthographic, stereographic and equisolid lenses.

Migration to Mercurial

Development of Hugin sourcecode has switched from Subversion to
Mercurial to better support parallel development and to reduce
dependency on Sourceforge infrastructure.

Languages

Most of the translations have been updated for this release.

Other improvements

This release has the usual bugfixes, adds minor features, and
provides some more command-line tools for scripting panorama
projects.

Control point generators

Hugin doesn't yet ship with a 'Patent Free' control point generator.
So you either need to pick control points manually - Not as
difficult as it sounds - or install and configure one of the
following control-point generators as 'plug-ins':

* autopano-sift-C
* panomatic
* libpanomatic
* match-n-shift
* Autopano-SIFT
* Autopano freeware version

Upgrading

Upgrading from previous versions of Hugin should be seamless. If you
do have problems with old settings, these can be reset in the
Preferences by clicking 'Load defaults'.

For users compiling from source: note that the minimum version of
wxWidgets supported is now 2.7.0, libpano13 needs to be at least
2.9.17, and that Hugin requires GLEW the OpenGL Extension Wrangler
Library, freeglut the OpenGL utility toolkit, and libGLU the OpenGL
utility library.

Support for the legacy libpano12 library has been discontinued.

See the README and INSTALL_cmake files for more information.

Thanks to all the contributors to this release and members of the
hugin-ptx mailing list, too many to mention here.

Hugin can be found at http://hugin.sourceforge.net/

Hugin sourcecode can be downloaded from sourceforge:

http://sourceforge.net/projects/hugin/files/hugin/

SHA1SUM: f0676f28cd3fbebcf4086f55af7cf09566772899  hugin-2010.2.0.tar.gz

This release is identical to 2010.2.0_rc2 
equivalent to hg branch 2010.2 -r 4431:d8ce0ba947cc
