Thanks to everyone responsible for this release!

Hugin 2010.0.0 release notes

Translated versions of these notes can be found here:
http://hugin.sourceforge.net/releases/

Hugin is a panorama stitcher and more.

Changes since 2009.4.0

The Hugin plan is to bring you new developments as soon as they are 
ready with regular incremental releases. This first release in 2010 
brings some new features, more results from the 2009 Google Summer 
of Code and many general improvements.

Usability

The Hugin Fast Preview window is where you see a rough preview of 
the final panorama and can edit it with a selection of tools — For 
example, one of several 'modes' is Drag for moving photos around the 
canvas, there are also single click 'actions' to do things like 
reset the exposure or center the view.

Now these tools have been overhauled to make them easier to find, to 
get a bigger panorama canvas, and to create space for new features 
in the pipeline such as the upcoming Layout mode. Switching 'modes' 
is more intuitive, with a tab for each that shows just the 'actions' 
relevant to that mode, the <F11> key enables full-screen viewing of 
the preview.

There are other usability-related changes — the Hugin main window 
can also be viewed full-screen with <F11>; more photo EXIF metadata 
is displayed in the Images tab; a list of recent projects is 
available in the File menu; plus there has been a general clean-up 
of text in the GUI and many updates to the manual.

Autocrop

Hugin is great for stitching hand-held panoramas, but nobody can 
shoot in perfect straight lines, so these panoramas need careful 
cropping to produce a picture with 100% coverage. The Fast Preview 
window now has an Autocrop button that does all this for you 
automatically — Just click, and the crop rectangle will be resized 
to use the largest possible area covered by your photos.

Deghosting

One of the advanced Hugin features is to merge bracketed photos 
using exposure fusion or HDR merging - This is done automatically 
when stitching when bracketed sets are detected.

However, when people or objects move during a bracketed sequence, 
'ghosts' appear in the result. So another Summer of Code project has 
now been integrated that both enables HDR deghosting in the GUI and 
provides an experimental deghosting_mask tool for exposure fusion 
deghosting with enfuse.

Languages

With the addition of a Finnish translation, the Hugin application is 
now internationalized for twenty-one languages, most of the 
translations have been updated for this release.

Other improvements

This release also has the usual incremental improvements: The 
default size of the image cache has increased in line with modern 
computers, so existing Hugin users may want to check or reset their 
Preferences to suit; the About dialog has been extended to show a 
full list of Hugin contributors, and there have been many other 
fixes for minor bugs and annoyances.

Control point generators

Hugin doesn't yet ship with a 'Patent Free' control point generator. 
So you either need to pick control points manually - Not as 
difficult as it sounds - or install and configure one of the 
following control-point generators as 'plug-ins':

* autopano-sift-C
* panomatic
* match-n-shift
* Autopano-SIFT
* Autopano freeware version

Upgrading

Upgrading from previous versions of Hugin should be seamless. If you 
do have problems with old settings, these can be reset in the 
Preferences by clicking 'Load defaults'.

For users compiling from source: note that the minimum version of 
wxWidgets supported is now 2.7.0, libpano13 needs to be at least 
2.9.14, and that Hugin now requires GLEW the OpenGL Extension 
Wrangler Library, freeglut the OpenGL utility toolkit, and libGLU 
the OpenGL utility library.

Support for the legacy libpano12 library has been discontinued.

See the README and INSTALL_cmake files for more information.

Thanks to all the contributors to this release and members of the 
hugin-ptx mailing list, too many to mention here.

Hugin can be found at http://hugin.sourceforge.net/

Hugin sourcecode can be downloaded from sourceforge:

http://sourceforge.net/projects/hugin/files/hugin/

SHA1SUM: 41eb7253aab12b913a5c9b6d9975d8652390dcb5  hugin-2010.0.0.tar.gz

This release is identical to 2010.0.0_rc1 and equivalent to SVN 
/releases/2010.0 -r 5045.

